-------------How To Install and Configure Elasticsearch on Ubuntu 14.04------------------------

=====Introduction=====

Elasticsearch is a platform for distributed search and analysis of data in real time. Its popularity is due to its ease of use, powerful features, and scalability.
Elasticsearch supports RESTful operations. This means that you can use HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.) in combination with an HTTP URI (/collection/entry) to manipulate your data. The intuitive RESTful approach is both developer and user friendly, which is one of the reasons for Elasticsearch's popularity.
Elasticsearch is a free and open source software with a solid company behind it — Elastic. This combination makes it suitable for use in anywhere from personal testing to corporate integration.


----Prerequisites----

Before following this tutorial, please make sure you complete the following prerequisites:

    A:- Ubuntu 14.04 Droplet
    A:- non-root sudo user. Check out Initial Server Setup with Ubuntu 14.04 for details.

Except otherwise noted, all of the commands that require root privileges in this tutorial should be run as a non-root user with sudo privileges.

Step 1 — Installing Java

First, you will need a Java Runtime Environment (JRE) on your Droplet because Elasticsearch is written in the Java programming language. Elasticsearch requires Java 7 or higher. Elasticsearch recommends Oracle JDK version 1.8.0_73, but the native Ubuntu OpenJDK native package for the JRE works as well.

This step shows you how to install both versions so you can decide which is best for you.
Installing OpenJDK

The native Ubuntu OpenJDK native package for the JRE is free, well-supported, and automatically managed through the Ubuntu APT installation manager.

Before installing OpenJDK with APT, update the list of available packages for installation on your Ubuntu Droplet by running the command:

$ sudo apt-get update

After that, you can install OpenJDK with the command:

$ sudo apt-get install openjdk-7-jre

To verify your JRE is installed and can be used, run the command:

$ java -version

The result should look like this:


